A Burr in My Own Side
Given that my wife loves to listen to the Hamilton soundtrack, whether in the car or otherwise,
I have heard it (at least) dozens of times, and, though never having seen the actual production
nor read the book upon which it was based, I am fairly familiar at this point with the story.
Often when I listen to the conflict between Hamilton and Burr, so elegantly laced through the entirety of
the plot, it occurs to me that, though Hamilton is not only the protagonist but also the hero, I
sympathize heavily with Aaron Burr, the unfortunate killer of the titular character.

The central conflict of ideals between these two characters largely rests, at least to my ears,
on two dialectics: proactivity versus reactivity and bias/opinion versus lack thereof. The former
is evident in Burr's song "Wait for It," in which he acknowledges his tendency towards "lying in
wait." He grabs hold of opportunities as they come, such as Philip Schuyler's Senate seat. This stands
in contrast to Hamilton's writing "like he's running out of time" and his constant drive to build
his legacy, whether through the establishment of the First National Bank or his involvement in the
War of Independence, especially against numerous obstacles (on both accounts). As far as the latter
is concerned, Burr's repeated advice and mantra entails not only not disclosing one's opinions, but seemingly not
having them at all, given Hamilton's motivation for their climactic duel.

While Burr is clearly meant to be sympathized with to at least some degree, I tend to
find myself personifying these traits to a concerning degree. I have lived most of my life reactively,
often much to my own chagrin as well as others'. If there is something or someone prompting me
to do something or an opportunity that falls at my feet, I take it. Otherwise, I do what I'm interested
in at the moment and bide my time for an opportunity, because that's how it's always worked for me.
While I may be interested in and have some knowledge about a great breadth of subjects, I frequently
find myself not interested enough about anything in particular to invest most of my time in it with
no other motivation. This has led to the other issue mentioned, lack of opinion. I am a strong believer
in investigating every side of something, especially if it's important. This in effect means that I
often don't have the time or interest to absorb enough information about something to have a fully fleshed out
opinion, which consequently means that I either end up sharing an opinion that isn't fully developed,
or that I just stand on the sidelines and don't have an opinion because I don't know enough about the issue
to do anything other than challenge others' opinions based on what they know, what I know, and logic.

The end result of all of this is that I am not terribly opinionated in a society in which opinions
are regularly equated with the knowledge to back up those opinions (even when the possession of an opinion
doesn't necessarily imply anything about knowledge), and good at a lot of things rather than great at
a couple things in a society in which specialization is just shy of absolutely necessary in the
workforce. So despite my natural tendency towards being like Burr, I'm trying my best to be
more like Hamilton, and it seems to me that the best place to start is doing everything like
I'm running out of time.
